---
slug: binding
title: TS Binding
authors: [br,gd]
tags: [binding]
---

We are glad to present the new contract binding generation in TypeScript language. We consider this as a *major improvement* in the way we are working with Archetype and Michelson contracts.

[Completium CLI](/docs/cli/introduction) now provides a simple command to generate the TypeScript binding:

```completium
completium-cli generate binding-ts mycontract.arl > mycontract.ts
```

Contract binding refers here to a generated interface to interact with a contract (mainly call its entry points and retrieve data from its storage); this interface is expressed in a native language with native types (here TypeScript).

The main benefits are that it removes the burden of manipulating complex JSON structures of Micheline values; it also integrates well with IDE and, in the case of TypeScript, provides *strong type checking* at compilation time, rather than at execution time.

As a consequence, it drastically reduces the effort to write [Tests](/docs/tests/introduction) and [DApps](/docs/dapps/introduction).

<!--truncate-->

## First example

Consider the following Archetype contract:

```archetype
archetype binding_example

variable msg : string = "Hello Binding World!"

entry exec(
  l : list<int>,
  r : rational,
  o : or<nat, string>) {
 /* … do something … */
}
```

The following code illustrates how to interact in TypeScript with this contract:

```ts
import { bind_example } from './binding/bind_example'
import { get_account } from '@completium/experiment-ts'

const alice = get_account(‘alice’)’

const msg = await bind_example.get_msg()

assert(msg == "Hello Binding World!")

await bind_example.exec(
  [new Int(4), new Int(-6)],
  new Rational(0.2),
  Or.Right<Nat, string>("Hello exec!"),
  { as : alice }
)
```

Note that the `msg` storage element is retrieved with the dedicated `get_msg` method of automatically generated binding object `bind_example`.

The `exec` entry point is called with the method with same name. Its signature is fully specified with native TS types:

```ts
(method) bind_example.exec(l: Int[], r: Rational, o: Or<Nat, string>, p : Optional<Parameters>): Promise<CallResult>
```

The mapping from Archetype/Michelson types to TypeScript types is presented [here](/docs/tests/binding#type-bindings).

## Test framework

The Archetype test framework has been totally redesigned to integrate the binding feature seamlessly.

The commands below creates an Node.js project in the `myproject` directory and installs the required packages.

```completium
$ completium-cli create project myproject
$ cd ./myproject
$ npm install
```

The command below generates the bindings for contracts found in `./contracts` directory:
```completium
$ npm run gen-binding
```

The test framework is presented in details [here](/docs/tests/framework).

## DApp

Binding is also available to integrate smart contracts in Dapps.

The command to generate the binding for integration in a DApp:

```completium
completium-cli generate binding-dapp-ts mycontract.arl > mycontract.ts
```

General considerations about DApp are presented [here](/docs/dapps/introduction). An fully functional DApp example with source code is presented [here](/docs/dapps/example/).


